[protester 1] We hate war!
- [protester 2] Stop the madness!
- [protester 1] We don't support this!
[protesters clamoring]
[folksy harmonica riff]
[twangy country music playing]
[crowd murmuring]
Thank you all.
Let's go get 'em!
[chuckles]
Have we heard anything more
from the devil's emissary?
Vergil has yet to make further contact.
but he will.
His questions to the survivors of
our welcome team were all about Uroboros.
And me.
[dark. menacing music playing]
[gasps]
Hey. buddy.
this is supposed to be a full load.
All right. where's the Hellspawn?
Huh?
[Vergil] Here.
[Baines] And when he does resurface?
He already beat
the weapon you built to stop him.
We still have Vergil's
exact genetic equal in our possession.
Just waiting to be thawed.
I tried to make Dante an asset.
He's a reckless delinquent
with a child's contempt for authority.
He's also the only one
who can stand against his brother.
We are going to deploy him.
I'm confident our new commander
will give Dante the motivation he needs.
It's the reason I promoted her.
Don't tell me their unique rapport
escaped your notice.
Unless that's why
you wanted him to stay frozen.
[martial drum line playing]
Commander Arkham!
I have something to report.
They're waking him up.
[Lady] He's gonna hate me.
[TV host] Our DNA test has revealed…
that your husband…
is a demon!
[host laughs]
Huh?
- Oh. uh…
- Prep the decryogenic agent for injection.
[yelps] Wait. decryo?
- You mean…
- Yes.
Arius wants us to wake him up.
[Hopper] Arius!
Hello! There you are.
How the hell are you?
I hope the grub was all right.
- Mr. President. I was just--
- Now. hold your horses a dang minute.
I wanted to congratulate
the both of y'all.
Heard you nabbed yourselves
a mighty powerful demon artifact.
One of the Arcana. right?
[laughs]
You ain't the only one
who got your own sources.
You fed me false intel
so I'd send our boys in to get whooped.
while your mercs
snuck through the back door.
You fucked me for DARKCOM's benefit.
like always.
I determined it was best
for you to maintain deniability.
given the sensitive nature--
You think this is a goddamn joke?
Your evangelical shit was supposed to
get us two extra points in the South.
And I'm in a war with Hell!
- Let God fight his own damn battles.
- God's donations didn't put you in office.
Mine did.
And your batshit crusade
is gonna get me impeached!
Now. it's time I remind y'all
who the el jefe is around here.
Uh-huh.
Maybe I'll just tear up those exclusive
demon realm mining contracts of yours.
[yelps]
I have significant stakes
in every major media conglomerate.
One phone call and whatever story I choose
runs on a 24-hour loop.
Your pill habit.
your foreign dealings with state secrets.
or the unfortunate fate
of your last mistress.
[sputtering] I…
[entrancing vocal music playing]
Mr. President. please excuse us.
Arius's attention is required
on affairs of greater…
value.
[Hopper] Goddamn it. Baines!
Did you bring that crazy son of a bitch in
just to help destroy me?
Come on!
I will do whatever it takes
to see God's Kingdom on Earth.
Whether that means deferring temporarily
to a self-aggrandizing apostate.
or expending one.
[agitated seething]
[Dante] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry!
No. No. don't do this again.
Please. not this again!
[crunching]
[young Dante] It was Lord Mundus
who had our family murdered.
But you abandoned your brother.
No!
[young Dante] You promised Mom
you'd always protect Vergil.
But you put yourself first.
Vergil. I'm sorry!
I was scared!
I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I'm sorry!
No. No. don't do this again.
Please. not this again.
[technician] His heartbeat's
starting back up.
You're going too fast.
We still need to keep him incapacitated.
Always the criticism.
Freezing them's easy.
Thawing them out takes a while.
It'll be hours before this guy
is anywhere close to conscious.
[gunfire]
[monitor beeping frantically]
What's that? What's happening?
Just… Just calm down.
It must be a… Something's…
[dark. brooding metal rock playing]
[distant boom]
Stop it! Shut it down!
[technician] I'm trying!
[Vergil] Our King Mundus
grants you your freedom.
Show him gratitude.
It was Mundus who freed me
from my own bondage.
The sapiens send their armies.
unaware of the storm they ride into.
I am that storm.
[song trails off]
[rowdy intro music playing]
[doctor] State your name. for the record.
Dante.
Okay. Dante. And your last name?
Sparda. I guess.
That's my dad's name.
Not sure if it's
his first or last. though.
I don't really know how demon names work.
Okay. Do you know why we are here. Dante?
I'm gonna be working
for DARKCOM for a bit.
and they told me I need a psych eval.
No idea why.
There have been some… issues in the field.
Congress has mandated
all government contractors
now need to be cleared for action
by an outside psychiatric expert.
That's me.
Look. this'll be quick. right?
I gotta get ready
to go confront my brother.
Your brother?
Twin. actually.
I thought he died as a kid
when a bunch of demons attacked us
and killed our mom.
He's been alive this whole time
and got brainwashed
into serving the demon king.
who was enemies with our dad.
Same guy who ordered the attack.
I see.
If that's it. I'll be going.
[clears throat]
Derek. clear my afternoon. please.
Lady… I'm sorry. Commander.
Congrats. by the way.
What's he been doing in there?
He's been…
Uh. he's been asking for more snacks.
[peppy pop music playing faintly]
[muffled] Lady! Finally!
Where have you been?
Hey. can I get you anything?
Well. after Lady came to meet me.
we went to see
the crazy old woman who makes guns.
[doctor] Wait. go back.
- [gunsmith] Huh?
- [Dante] Hmm?
What's the problem?
Hmm. isn't Commander Arkham
the one you said. quote.
"Tricked you and drugged you
to imprison you here in the first place"?
Ah. that's just me and Lady's thing.
It's a whole back and forth.
We try to trap each other.
kill each other. blow each other up.
I mean. it's mostly her to me.
but I'm a superpowered demon hybrid.
I gotta give her a fair shot.
Dante. I want you to think a minute.
Tell me exactly what happened
between you and Arkham in that lab.
Every little thing you remember.
from your perspective.
[tape rewinding]
- [upbeat cartoony music playing]
- Dante!
Yeah. I'm back. Lady.
I'm really sorry for what I did.
We were just about to wake you up.
actually. because…
your brother Vergil is back.
Vergil?
Yes. but I have to tell you.
your brother is working
for the demon king Mundus.
No. Vergil would never do that. unless…
He was brainwashed!
We have to save him!
Time for a super…
Demon Hunter…
- Team up!
[needle scratch]
[Lady] That's what he told you?
I'd say his brain isn't fully thawed yet.
except it's always like that.
We are talking about a traumatized young
man who was illegally held captive by you.
Ha! You know this whole joke of government
oversight is just PR spin. right?
You think anyone signs up to kill demons
who doesn't have
severe psychological issues?
Okay. is that your official assessment
of your subordinates?
Fine.
You wanna know
what really happened in that lab?
[brooding. dramatic music playing]
You ate two entire vending machines.
Impressive.
[Dante] Being illegally detained
works up a man's appetite.
[Lady] I'm here to help you.
Last thing I remember.
you said I was
too dangerous for the world.
What's the catch?
No catch.
I call the shots in this organization now.
The last shot you called
ended with me on ice.
I had just watched
my entire team get slaughtered
right in front of me by the White Rabbit.
and I led them into that trap.
You think that gives you a pass
to play fast and loose with my fate?
I got caught up in the riptide
and made a bad call.
But this olive branch right here
is about your long-lost twin brother.
We found him.
[grunts] Vergil…
He's batting for Mundus's team now.
No…
He's a sensitive kid.
He murdered a dozen of ours.
Single-handedly.
[seethes]
[Lady] I'm gonna reunite you
with your brother. Dante.
Bring Vergil over to our side.
and together. we will save him.
Sure thing. Lady.
But what's the fine print?
After you saved the world.
I put you on ice.
This is me apologizing.
[doctor] So what's the actual plan?
The one you feel justifies lying to him?
The plan is above your security clearance.
We're covered by
a doctor-patient privilege here.
Okay. I'll tell you the plan.
We capture Vergil. take his blood.
and use it to open the rift between
our world and the Demon Realm.
[doctor] Isn't that exactly
what you and Dante were fighting
to stop from happening?
[Lady] It's only gonna be
temporary this time.
We need it open just long enough
for us to fire an ultimate demon weapon
called the Arcana through it.
To kill Mundus in one shot.
And given that I just watched him
casually stroll through
a few hundred of our best troops
like they were paper cutouts. yeah.
I say it's pretty fucking justified.
[doctor] Oh. okay. I see.
I couldn't be honest with Dante.
for his own good.
[doctor] I don't think
you're being honest with me. Dante.
You never met your father. did you?
[somber music playing]
You lost your mother
and twin brother as a young boy.
And your only friend. Enzo.
who raises a whole host of other concerns.
died in your arms.
You don't seem to have anyone else
who's truly in your life.
And now here's your brother.
suddenly back.
seemingly working
for your mother's killer.
What was your reaction to hearing that?
[Lady] It's your brother.
Vergil is alive.
[heart beating]
Where is he? I have to see him.
Dante.
Vergil's…
He's working for Mundus.
["Church (feat. Valen)"
by Lawless playing]
♪ Muses wrote ♪
[heart beating]
♪ Don't love me anymore ♪
[haunting. melodic pop music playing]
♪ Tell me what it's for ♪
[Dante breathing raggedly]
♪ If every time it hurts ♪
Stop!
♪ There's always one more thing ♪
♪ How can I keep going? ♪
♪ When I've given all of me ♪
♪ Always out of reach ♪
[song trails off]
You can trust me.
This time.
Arius is so excited to finally meet you.
[peppy elevator music playing]
So this guy's your boss?
Technically.
He used to just
leave us alone with his money.
but ever since the war started…
[Arius] The son of Sparda.
We finally have the pleasure.
Believe me. it's one for us both.
I'd apologize for your hiatus
in our cryo chamber.
but I'm actually a bit envious.
I'd been thinking of trying it myself.
[Dante] Huh?
Baines assists with recruiting.
and he directed Arkham's
elite ops team on certain missions
pertaining to national security.
But DARKCOM is my company.
as is the company that owns it.
I'll be overseeing
your mission personally.
Let me give you a tour.
Our training facilities.
state-of-the-art.
including Uroboros' VR tech.
not available to the public.
Uroboros! That's how I know you!
You're that insane billionaire inventor.
Didn't you do
a bunch of cloning experiments
so you could drink the fetus's blood
to stay young or something?
I do love the charmingly ludicrous
fictions of your American tabloids.
Arius is a liberator.
His every endeavor is a hammer strike
shattering the oppressive chains
that constrain us.
How many licks does it take
to get to the center of an Armani boot?
So they're going to find Vergil?
[Arius] Yes.
And when they do.
we'll send you to meet him.
We tried it ourselves.
These were the results.
[Dante breathing raggedly]
[Vergil giggling]
[doctor] You must have
felt something about that.
Seeing your brother's face again.
Seeing what he did to all those soldiers.
I felt…
I felt like I wasn't looking
at my brother. not the one I remember.
I don't want to fight him.
But whatever Mundus did to make
Vergil like this. I'll get him back.
However I have to.
We'll be there behind you.
[Dante] We had
a healthy rivalry growing up.
Normal brother stuff.
Arguing over the game controller.
sparring with kitchen knives.
seeing which of us could knock the other
through the most walls with one hit.
Anyway. I needed some weapons.
And since DARKCOM took all of mine.
we went to see
the crazy old woman who makes guns.
[flames whooshing]
[gunsmith] Eh.
Still needs something
to give it an extra kick.
Grenades. maybe?
I was just thinking that.
Nell Goldstein.
Chief Weapons Engineer.
She's what I would want
my grandma to be like.
[Nell] That's a beauty right there.
and the sword ain't too bad either.
I didn't want this to get stashed away
in some evidence locker.
so I had Nell hold on to it.
We've got something else you'll like.
[Nell] These are the main attraction.
I had Nell make them for you.
Just in case.
They're Makaian metal. so you won't
mangle them up like you always do.
[Nell] .45 caliber. semi-automatic.
gold-plated triggers.
ported muzzle compensators
to reduce recoil.
and custom sight systems.
- [Dante] Who are the chicks?
- Those are two fine ladies you're holding.
Ebony and Ivory.
I based their portraits off of my own.
can't you tell?
[rowdy rap metal music playing]
[music halts]
Yeah. I think I can work with these.
Found your old mercenary alias.
It's the most thoughtful gift
anyone's ever given me.
[announcer] DARKCOM.
Y'all take whatever else you want now.
just be quiet about it.
My show's almost on.
You'll get through this. Dante.
I believe in you.
Welcome to the show. I'm Stan Sullivan.
Today we have a special. unplanned guest.
An official ambassador
from the Demon Realm.
whose name is Vergil the demon.
What?
No fucking way.
- [audience member 1] Oh my God.
- [audience member 2] Really?
Thank you for having me. Stan.
Well. to start. Vergil.
if I can call you that.
something I think a lot of
our audience will be wondering…
You don't exactly look like a demon.
And what is it
that a demon looks like. Stan?
[nervous gulp]
I'm just kidding.
I. of course. know what you mean.
[jazzy fanfare playing]
[Baines seethes]
Hmm.
[Vergil] The explanation is simple.
My father was a demon.
but my mother was human.
Wow. I… I didn't even know that--
We need to shut this down. Now.
Shut it down? This is can't-miss TV.
Not the move I expected
from a brooding warrior.
He's upended the entire game board.
Utterly inspired.
[Stan] Are there many others
who are like you?
Others like me?
Only one.
I was born on Earth.
But I've lived on Makai
since I was a child.
I return now on behalf of Mundus. my king.
You have all been told
that our world is Hell.
and our ruler the Devil.
But these are only stories.
They have nothing to do
with our true nature.
Mundus seeks simply
to preserve the proper order of his realm.
How can he defend that monster?
When he…
Your leaders. with the help
of their well-paid mouthpieces.
have sold you this attempted invasion
as a moral battle.
Good versus evil.
Humanity versus Hell.
Unlike them. I believe you are
intelligent enough to face reality.
These are stills
taken from security footage
at one of your country's
black site demon prisons.
Showing your soldiers
torturing Makaians without trial.
for no crime other than their origins.
[audience murmuring]
God damn it!
Find out how he got those!
Those demons aren't from Mundus's troops.
They're civilians. refugees.
There can be no refugees from Hell.
I thought you would have seen
your error in that by now.
Hmm. If his big play is to hope people
sympathize with demons…
This prison torturing innocent civilians
is a private facility.
whose ownership can be traced
to a single parent corporation. Uroboros.
The invasion of Makai and the lives
it's claimed from both our realms
has all been engineered by one man.
Arius von Erenburg.
Your country's entire cause for taking up
arms against Makai is built on a lie.
Manufactured by Arius.
The so-called demon who attacked
New York City. the White Rabbit.
- was in fact--
- Cut the feed!
[high-pitched drone]
[crowd clamoring]
Huh.
That turned out all right.
That was the greatest broadcast
in TV history.
And I was part of it! [laughs]
[audience chanting] Vergil! Vergil!
Vergil! Vergil!
[Arius snarls]
[haltingly] Uh. sir. Mr. Vergil.
It's the president.
[Hopper] Vergil. Compadre.
Seeing as you're
Makai's ambassador and all.
I figured you and I should negotiate.
[brooding. mysterious music playing]
I'll make sure you're protected.
You and the other…
families.
Baines!
[doctor] You know
what Vergil was gonna say.
The lie Arius is covering up.
Mundus needs to be defeated.
He really is on Mundus's side.
[alarm klaxon beeping]
[PA alert system]
Code red. Vergil is incoming.
[doctor] Now wait. Dante. I don't believe
you're psychologically prepared to…
I am not clearing you for action.
There will be a congressional
committee hearing about this. Hello?
[PA alert system]
Code red. Vergil is incoming.
T-minus ten minutes.
[sweeping. dramatic music building]
Don't worry. Mom.
I'll get him back.
[dramatic outro music playing]